JUDY WOODRUFF: Good evening.
I'm Judy Woodruff.
HARI SREENIVASAN: And I'm Hari
Sreenivasan.
JUDY WOODRUFF: On the "NewsHour"
tonight:
Donald Trump campaigns across
Ohio, while
Michelle Obama joins Hillary
Clinton in North
Carolina for their first joint
rally.
HARI SREENIVASAN: Also ahead
this Thursday:
New sexual misconduct
allegations against
Supreme Court Justice Clarence
Thomas emerge.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Plus: why the
United States'
prosperity could be its downfall
-- a look
through the history of empires
to explore
the true cost of wealth.
TODD BUCHHOLZ, Author, "The
Price of Prosperity:
Why Rich Nations Fail and How to
Renew Them":
They undermine themselves, and
they do that
by racking up more debt, by
having fewer babies
born, by more regulation.
And it's difficult to keep up
patriotism as
time goes by.
HARI SREENIVASAN: And the
guiding grace of
food -- TV chef Anthony Bourdain
gives his
take on the power of food in his
own life
and in how we connect with
others.
ANTHONY BOURDAIN, Chef: Food may
not be the
answer to world peace, but it's
a start.
I think I was thinking of Ted
Nugent.
I find just about everything
that comes out
of his mouth violently
offensive, but we both
like barbecue.
That is some kind of common
ground for a discussion.
JUDY WOODRUFF: All that and more
on tonight's
"PBS NewsHour."
(BREAK)
JUDY WOODRUFF: The presidential
race is down
to its last dozen days, and the
candidates
are gearing up for one final
push.
This day found them hard at it
in two crucial
states.
Lisa Desjardins begins our
coverage.
LISA DESJARDINS: Donald Trump's
race to 270
electoral votes, at least today,
meant hopscotching
across battleground Ohio, first
stop, Springfield,
the nominee greeted by
supporters, brimming
with confidence:
DONALD TRUMP (R), Presidential
Candidate:
If we win on November 8, when --
OK, OK -- when
we win on November 8.
(CHEERING AND APPLAUSE)
LISA DESJARDINS: Trump hit on
familiar themes,
protecting borders, improving
the economy,
and then he touched on the
latest Clinton
news: e-mails about corporations
that donated
to the Clinton Foundation and
paid Bill Clinton
to speak as well.
DONALD TRUMP: If the Clinton's
were willing
to play this fast and loose with
their enterprise
when they weren't in the White
House, just
imagine what they will do, given
the chance
to once again control the Oval
Office.
LISA DESJARDINS: Separately, in
an ABC interview,
Trump faced a question about
after the election,
and how he'd handle his sharp
divide with
Hillary Clinton.
GEORGE STEPHANOPOULOS, ABC News:
If she wins,
are you prepared to work with
her?
DONALD TRUMP: I just want to
make that decision
at a later date.
I'm not saying I'm not or I am.
Hopefully, I won't have to make
that decision.
I really believe we're going to
win.
LISA DESJARDINS: Similarly, on
her campaign
plane last night, Clinton was
asked if she
would meet with Trump after it's
over.
She also demurred.
HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (D),
Presidential Candidate:
I certainly intend to reach out
to Republicans
and independents and the elected
leadership
of the Congress.
LISA DESJARDINS: Clinton's day
today wasn't
about hopscotching.
There was just one big event, in
critical
North Carolina with one of her
biggest surrogates
on stage with her.
Clinton pushed her new plan to
fight bullies.
HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON: The
young woman I
met in Iowa who told me she was
bullied because
of her asthma.
This has got to stop.
And I can't think of anything
more important
than making sure every single
one of our children
knows they are loved just as
they are.
Michelle Obama!
(CHEERING AND APPLAUSE)
LISA DESJARDINS: And then the
candidate introduced
the first lady.
MICHELLE OBAMA, First Lady: So,
when you hear
folks talking about a global
conspiracy, and
saying that this election is
rigged, understand
that they are trying to get you
to stay home.
Make no mistake about it.
Casting our vote is the ultimate
way we go
high when they go low.
Voting is our high.
LISA DESJARDINS: It's not the
final week,
but, in stump speeches and in
campaign ads,
the final arguments are
beginning.
For the "PBS NewsHour," I'm Lisa
Desjardins.
HARI SREENIVASAN: In the day's
other news:
Thousands of people in Central
Italy are homeless
after two powerful earthquakes.
The tremors hit last night near
the town of
Visso, about 100 miles north of
Rome.
State TV captured a 15th century
church as
it was brought down, and drone
footage today
showed the full extent of the
destruction.
Hundreds of homes were damaged
or destroyed
as well.
JUDY WOODRUFF: There's been
another migrant
disaster in the Mediterranean.
Libya's navy reports that at
least 90 people
drowned Wednesday when their
rubber boat tore
apart; 29 others were rescued
about 26 miles
off the Libyan coast.
Most were African nationals.
HARI SREENIVASAN: A deadly
airstrike on a
school in Syria touched off
allegations of
war crimes today and heated
denials.
It happened Wednesday in rebel
territory in
Idlib Province.
U.N. officials say 22 children
and six teachers
died.
Amateur video showed a parachute
floating
to earth, then an explosion, and
rescue workers
pulling victims from the
wreckage.
U.N. envoy Gordon Brown called
it an atrocity.
GORDON BROWN, United Nations
Envoy: This is
clearly a war crime if it is a
deliberate
attack on a school.
The statute for the
International Criminal
Court makes that absolutely
clear that this
is, under their view, a war
crime when a school
is targeted.
HARI SREENIVASAN: The White
House blamed Russia
and Syria for the attack, but
the Kremlin
insisted its jets were not
responsible.
JUDY WOODRUFF: The government of
Pakistan
moved today to ban protests in
the capital,
Islamabad, for two months.
Hours later, police rounded up
dozens of supporters
of Imran Khan, the leader of the
opposition.
Khan, in turn, called a
nationwide protest
against Prime Minister Nawaz
Sharif for tomorrow.
Sharif is embroiled in a scandal
involving
his family's offshore bank
accounts.
HARI SREENIVASAN: Back in this
country, the
Justice Department has charged
61 people here
and abroad with a sweeping scam
that netted
more than $300 million.
Officials say callers based in
India posed
as IRS or immigration agents and
demanded
payments of allegedly
outstanding taxes or
other fees.
They victimized at least 15,000
people, mostly
the elderly and immigrants.
BRUCE FOUCART, Assistant U.S.
ICE Director:
Many of the victims in this case
are savvy,
successful, and law-abiding
people.
These scammers in this case, and
in so many
cases like this, are convincing.
They are menacing and they are
ruthless in
their pursuit of their victims.
They convey authority and a
sense of urgency
that leaves their victims
terrified.
HARI SREENIVASAN: Federal agents
have served
warrants in eight states and
arrested at least
20 people so far.
JUDY WOODRUFF: In North Dakota,
soldiers and
police have begun removing and
arresting protesters
against the Dakota Access oil
pipeline.
About 200 people had camped on
private land
trying to block construction,
and they refused
to leave voluntarily.
They say the pipeline could
damage cultural
sites and water supplies for the
Standing
Rock Sioux Tribe.
HARI SREENIVASAN: In economic
news, Twitter
announced it's killing its
mobile video app
Vine and laying off 9 percent of
its global
work force, about 300 people.
The company is losing money and
has been searching
for a buyer.
And, on Wall Street, the Dow
Jones industrial
average lost 29 points to close
at 18169.
The Nasdaq fell 34 points.
The S&P 500 slipped six.
Still to come on the "NewsHour":
new allegations
against Justice Clarence Thomas;
the Republican
Party's challenge with women;
new e-mails
that show Bill Clinton profiting
from Clinton
Foundation donors; how
Americans' economic
prosperity could be masking
future threats;
and much more.
JUDY WOODRUFF: As you just
heard, there are
new allegations coming out today
of sexual
assault aimed at Supreme Court
Justice Clarence
Thomas.
Marcia Coyle, who is the chief
Washington
correspondent for "The National
Law Journal"
and a "NewsHour" regular, she
broke the story,
and she joins us now.
Marcia, welcome to the program.
MARCIA COYLE, "The National Law
Journal":
Thanks, Judy.
JUDY WOODRUFF: So, you cover the
Supreme Court.
MARCIA COYLE: Yes.
JUDY WOODRUFF: How did this come
to your attention?
MARCIA COYLE: Well, the evening
of the day
that all of us were reading
about Donald Trump's
audiotape in which he talked
about how he
treated women, Moira Smith, who
is a lawyer
and executive at a natural gas
company in
Alaska, put a post on her
Facebook page in
which she recounted three
instances of inappropriate
touching, even sexual assault,
in her life.
And one of the incidents that
she mentioned
involved Justice Clarence
Thomas.
Back in 1999, when she was just
shy of her
24th birthday, she was a Truman
Foundation
scholar here in Washington,
D.C., and she
was at a dinner party hosted by
her boss at
the time at the foundation, and
Justice Thomas
was there with some other
guests.
She claimed that he groped her
at that dinner.
A friend of hers sent a copy of
the Facebook
post to me in a private Twitter
message.
And after discussing it with my
editors, we
felt we should open the line of
communication
with her.
I called her, with no commitment
to publish
anything, to see if she wanted
to talk.
She didn't seek us out, and we
didn't go hunting
for her.
JUDY WOODRUFF: So, you say this
was a dinner
party.
It involved the group that she
was part of.
Her employer was having the
dinner.
How did she happen to be next
to, be adjacent
to the justice?
MARCIA COYLE: She was called a
resident scholar.
She was spending a year in which
she basically
helped the foundation with its
activities.
And part of her unofficial
duties was to be
at these dinner parties that the
director
of the foundation used to
network.
This was a special dinner in
which the foundation
was planning to give an award to
a Kansas
state legislator.
And Justice Thomas was invited
because he
was going to give the award the
next day at
the Supreme Court.
She claims that she was there
doing preparations
and doing final setting of the
table for the
dinner.
Most of the guests, she said,
were in the
kitchen with her boss, who was a
gourmet chef.
When she was setting the table
next to the
justice is when she claims that
he reached
out and grabbed her with his
right arm about
five to six inches below the
waste and squeezed
her several times while asking
her where was
she going to sit.
He thought she should sit next
to him.
She eventually broke away.
JUDY WOODRUFF: And, that night,
she didn't
say anything to anyone at the
party.
MARCIA COYLE: No.
No.
JUDY WOODRUFF: But she did
later?
MARCIA COYLE: Well, based on my
conversations
that we had almost daily, I --
while listening
to her, I also began to report
out to see
if there was any corroboration.
And I so found that she had had
three roommates,
housemates that summer, in D.C.,
and I found
them and interviewed each of
them individually.
And even though they were fuzzy
-- I mean,
it's been a long time on the
actual details
of what she said -- they all
remembered her
telling them about inappropriate
behavior
by the justice and how they
really just didn't
know what to do.
I also found a fourth person who
was a scholar
that summer who also remembered
her telling
him about the incident shortly
afterwards.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Now, Marcia, you
have asked
the justice about this.
Tell us about that.
MARCIA COYLE: I approached the
-- my editors
and I thought we had enough to
approach him
on Tuesday.
And I walked the letter over to
the court
public information office, in
which I told
him specifically what she was
claiming in
her own words.
And then later that evening, I
followed up
with a series of questions.
He finally did get back to us
late Wednesday
afternoon.
And, at that point, he had just
one sentence
in response.
He said, "The claim is
preposterous and it
never happened."
JUDY WOODRUFF: And are you
aware, Marcia,
of any other allegations
involving Justice
Thomas, other than the Anita
Hill original...
(CROSSTALK)
MARCIA COYLE: No.
As I said in the story, there
have been no
other public allegations against
the justice
since the Anita Hill hearings in
1991.
JUDY WOODRUFF: So, where does
this go from
here?
MARCIA COYLE: I think people
should read the
story.
As I often say here on the
"NewsHour" when
I talk about decisions, I try to
give as much
information as possible, so that
people can
make up their own minds about
what the court
has done.
This was a thoroughly reported
and carefully
edited story.
And I just suggest they read it
and make their
own decision.
And we will see.
There has been some reaction.
The justice has very loyal
supporters.
They have come -- some of them
have come forward
with very skeptical comments
about the story.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Marcia Coyle with
"The National
Law Journal," thank you for
coming to talk
to us about it.
MARCIA COYLE: Thank you, Judy.
JUDY WOODRUFF: And now we turn
to the allegations
that Donald Trump, and some of
his surrogates,
have not only alienated, but
declared war
on women this election cycle,
this on a day
when another woman has come
forward to accuse
Trump of groping her, bringing
the total number
of accusers now to at least 12.
The former Miss Finland in the
2006 Miss Universe
Pageant charges that he grabbed
her from behind
as they were being photographed
together.
HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (D),
Presidential Candidate:
What we want to do is to
replenish the Social
Security Trust Fund...
DONALD TRUMP (R), Presidential
Candidate:
Such a nasty woman.
JUDY WOODRUFF: The "nasty woman"
interjection
at the last debate, Donald Trump
standing
right behind Hillary Clinton
during the second
debate, the "Access Hollywood"
audiotape from
2005 in which he boasted of
groping women.
DONALD TRUMP: And when you're a
star they
let you do it.
You can do anything.
BILLY BUSH, "Access Hollywood":
Whatever you
want.
DONALD TRUMP: Grab them by the
(WORD DELETED).
JUDY WOODRUFF: And subsequent
allegations
by women who say Trump grabbed
or inappropriately
kissed them in the past.
It's all taking a toll.
A poll by the Public Religion
Research Institute
found evangelical Christian
women, in particular,
are breaking away; 58 percent
support Trump,
compared to 77 percent who voted
for Mitt
Romney in 2012.
Plus, a third of Republican
women in Congress
have defected from Trump.
But the nominee's male
surrogates are on the
offensive.
This week, former House Speaker
Newt Gingrich
scolded FOX News anchor Megyn
Kelly.
NEWT GINGRICH (R), Former
Speaker of the House:
You are fascinated with sex, and
you don't
care about public policy.
MEGYN KELLY, FOX News: Me,
really?
NEWT GINGRICH: That's what I get
out of watching
you tonight.
MEGYN KELLY: You know what, Mr.
Speaker, I
am not fascinated by sex, but I
am fascinated
by the protection of women and
understanding
what we're getting in the Oval
Office.
NEWT GINGRICH: OK.
MEGYN KELLY: And I think the
American voters
would like to know...
NEWT GINGRICH: And, therefore,
we are going
to send Bill Clinton back to the
East Wing,
because, after all, you are
worried about
sexual predators.
JUDY WOODRUFF: The exchange
elicited praise
from Trump yesterday.
DONALD TRUMP: We don't play
games, Newt, right?
We don't play games.
JUDY WOODRUFF: But the Clinton
campaign is
hoping to capitalize.
DONALD TRUMP: I would look her
right in that
fat ugly face of hers.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Using Trump's own
language
about women in ads that show
young girls looking
in the mirror.
And, today, in North Carolina,
the candidate
had this to say:
HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON: I wish I
didn't have
to say this, but, indeed,
dignity and respect
for women and girls is also on
the ballot
in this election.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Now, less than
two weeks from
Election Day, several polls show
Clinton leading
among women by even more than
President Obama's
11-point margin four years ago.
To explore what's behind some of
those numbers
and the fears from some
Republicans that their
party may be alienating female
voters for
years to come, we are joined by
Missy Shorey,
executive director of Maggie's
List.
It's a political action group
that works to
elect conservative women to
Congress.
And Christine Matthews, she is a
Republican
pollster and president of
Bellwether Research.
And we welcome both of you to
the "NewsHour."
Let me start with you, Christine
Matthews.
Someone you know, I'm sure,
Nicolle Wallace,
tweeted this week -- and I'm
quoting -- she
said: "Republicans are engaged
in a hot war,"
her words, "against women that
will end badly
for the party."
How do you see what's going on
right now?
CHRISTINE MATTHEWS, President,
Bellwether
Research: I agree.
The whole tenor and tone of this
campaign
has been one in which women
voters have been
casualties.
I think, you know, we have
really turned off
women.
I think the gains that we made
as a party
in 2014 sort of on the heels of
recovering
from 2012, where two Senate
candidates unfortunately
used rape analogies in very
unfortunate ways,
we have made progress.
I think this election cycle, we
have completely
regressed, and we're going to --
I think we're
going to see a historic gender
gap in the
lines of 20-plus points.
JUDY WOODRUFF: When you say "we
have regressed,"
what are you referring to?
CHRISTINE MATTHEWS: What I mean,
is, you know,
the -- basically, the Democrats
have always
said, you know, Republicans are
waging a war
on women.
And I think that we started in
2014 to have
conversations that moved us past
that.
Again, we had the unfortunate
comments in
2012 about rape.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Right.
CHRISTINE MATTHEWS: And, in
2014, I think
we had some constructive
conversations.
We won Senate races in most of
our battleground
state.
And we had sort of moved beyond
that.
And now not only are we seen as
not sort of
modern or with the era.
We're seen as completely
regressive cavemen,
actually.
JUDY WOODRUFF: You mean because
of comments
by Donald Trump, by other
Republican men supporting
him?
CHRISTINE MATTHEWS: I think
because of Donald
Trump primarily.
He set the tone for this.
He set it in the primary when he
attacked
Carly Fiorina's face and said,
you know, "Look
at that face.
Is that presidential?"
And it went downhill from there.
And I don't think that we have
seen a lot
of Republican men stepping up
and saying this
is -- they have said it's
unacceptable.
But the problem is, and the rub,
is, in many
cases, they're still supporting
Donald Trump.
And I think the women in the
party feel very,
I have to say betrayed, yes.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Missy Shorey, as
a woman in
the Republican Party, how do you
see all this?
MISSY SHOREY, Executive
Director, Maggie's
List: Well, thank you, Judy.
This is a very important
conversation.
And the way that we really need
to look at
it is, this is a raw moment in
politics.
We don't have a perfect
candidate.
But at the end of the day, this
election is
really going to come down to our
future.
It is a pocketbook issue.
It is an issue where families
and women and
children deserve to have more
opportunity
and, quite frankly, much more
responsible
government.
And, in many ways, the
conversation, the dialogue
we're having today is so
distracting, because
the real issues at hand are
being utterly
ignored.
JUDY WOODRUFF: So, you're saying
that you
don't take seriously the
concerns about what
Donald Trump said in that
audiotape, the "Access
Hollywood" tape, and the
accusations by the
women who have come forward?
MISSY SHOREY: Absolutely, Judy,
everyone takes
it seriously.
Everyone is concerned, and
everyone knows
that that behavior is not
acceptable.
Mr. Trump has apologized, and I
have accepted
his apology.
And, as a result, many people
do.
But this is a tough year.
And people are going to have to
look and say,
where do they want the future of
the party
to be?
Do they want our values of less
government
and opportunity to go away?
Do we want issues of security to
be taken
off the table?
And, instead, essentially, we're
doing -- we're
looking at a terrible personal
behavior, as
opposed to really looking at the
policies
taking us forward.
And that's what's going to keep
the party
going.
And Christine is absolutely
right.
This is a very tough time for
us, but it's
very important we stand up for
our own values.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Christine
Matthews, what she's
saying is, the pocketbook
economic issues
are more important than any of
this.
CHRISTINE MATTHEWS: I don't
think -- well,
I would respectfully disagree.
I think that what Donald Trump
has done, the
tone that he has set for this
campaign has
been so damaging, that it's very
difficult
to have a conversation about
pocketbook issues.
It's so over the top, it's so
distracting,
it's so disrespectful.
I, for one, am not beyond that.
For me -- and I think every
woman has to struggle
with this.
Every Republican consultant that
I know, every
woman, this is all we talk
about, how difficult
this is, how stressful this is,
how, you know
-- with two other women
consultants, I started
a firm that was supposed to help
us talk to
Republican women, or all women,
really.
And we feel like we have been
almost slapped
in the face by this kind of
conversation that
we're having.
And, for me, I'm not going to be
supporting
Donald Trump.
I never was and I never will.
The question for myself and
other Republican
consultants, other women voters
is, then what?
What do you do?
It's not like there's a full
embrace of Hillary
Clinton on the Republican side.
You know, Republican women don't
like her
either.
So then the question is, what do
you do?
JUDY WOODRUFF: Well, let me come
back to Missy
Shorey.
You hear what she is -- you hear
what Christine
is saying, that when Republican
women get
together, they can't get past
what has happened
in this campaign.
MISSY SHOREY: Well, maybe some
people, that's
their case, and maybe that's
kind of a mind-set
of a consultant.
But for those of us who are
grassroots activists,
we have to respect democracy.
Millions of people came out and
voted in the
primaries on a level they never
have before.
And, as a result, there is
something there.
There's a chord that Donald
Trump has touched
on.
Now, do I share her concerns on
many levels?
Yes, I do, and I think every
woman does.
But this is not going to be the
only issue
that's here.
We really need to look at the
bigger picture.
We need to look at -- and I also
say, let's
elect more women to office, so
we have more
options going forward.
Let's look at the future of
what's there.
And I will tell you that when I
speak with
my other Republican women, yes,
this comes
up, but it's not the only thing
we're talking
about.
We're talking about many things,
in terms
of, do we want a culture of
corruption going
forward that we have seen with
the Clinton
White House and we will see in
the next one?
Or do we want a situation where
we can have
opportunity, we can have
economic prosperity
and we can have security?
Those are things that are
important, and that
we can get the kind of Supreme
Court that
we need for this country to
protect our constitutional
rights that just have not been
brought there.
These are things that people are
having a
hard time getting into and past
because of
the issues at hand.
They are serious, but they're
not the only
issues.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Christine
Matthews, what about
her comment that, well,
consultants may feel
this way, but we're out here in
the trenches?
CHRISTINE MATTHEWS: Well, OK,
so, I am a consultant,
but I also do research among
women voters.
And I have to say that women
voters are expressing
despair.
Republican women voters,
independent women
voters, I'm seeing words used
like despair,
agony.
They are very unhappy with what
they have
seen in terms of how Donald
Trump has talked
about women.
So, it's not just like the
professional class
in D.C. that is concerned about
this.
I am.
My friends here are, but so are
the voters.
So are women that I talk to as
part of my
research every day.
JUDY WOODRUFF: How do you see
this getting
resolved?
I want to ask both of you this
question.
CHRISTINE MATTHEWS: Yes.
You know, I am concerned,
actually.
I think the Republican roster is
going to
shrink.
I think a number of women who
worked in this
field, who have worked in this
field for decades
are going to declare themselves
free agents.
And they're going to say, a
party that basically
rejected other qualified
candidates and is
supporting Donald Trump, a party
who, you
know, we're seeing, because of
Donald Trump,
you know, Vladimir Putin's
favorability is
rising, Paul Ryan's shrinking.
Where is my role in this?
And so I think you are going to
see a number
of women say, my time and talent
are worth
something, and I'm not sure this
is something
I'm going to continue to do.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Missy Shorey, how
do you see
this getting resolved?
MISSY SHOREY: I think the
ultimate resolution
is for us to really look and
say, what do
we stand for as individuals, as
Americans,
and where do we see the future
of this country,
and really standing up for
policies and programs,
for example, the better way that
Paul Ryan
has put forward, and the first
100 days of
what Donald Trump has said.
Is he a perfect candidate?
No.
But the reality is, we have to
weigh the future
of our country with this.
I do think we have a lot of
soul-searching
to do as a party.
Christine is absolutely right.
But the issue is, do we let
other people define
who we are as a party, or do we
embrace our
principles, move forward and
relentlessly
advocate for them?
JUDY WOODRUFF: Well, we -- I
know that both
of you are going to be
continuing to think
about this hard until Election
Day and beyond.
Missy Shorey, we thank you.
Christine Matthews, thank you
for joining
us.
CHRISTINE MATTHEWS: Thank you.
JUDY WOODRUFF: To another
political story
today.
The hacked Clinton campaign
e-mails published
by the anti-secrecy WikiLeaks
are providing
new details on an issue that's
been dogging
Hillary Clinton for some time,
and that is
the relationship between the
charitable Clinton
Foundation and the Clinton's
personal wealth.
To put it in all context, here's
John Yang.
JOHN YANG: Hillary Clinton has
said job one
after she and her husband left
the White House
in 1997 was making money.
She talked about it in a 2014
ABC News interview.
HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (D),
Presidential Candidate:
We had no money when we got
there, and we
struggled to, you know, piece
together the
resources for mortgages for
houses, for Chelsea's
education.
You know, it wasn't easy.
First of all, we had to pay off
all our debts,
which was -- you know, you had
to make double
the money because of, obviously,
taxes, and
pay off the debt and get us
houses and take
care of family members.
JOHN YANG: Now documents and
messages in stolen
Clinton campaign e-mails suggest
the Clinton
Foundation may have been part of
that.
They're written by Doug Band, a
White House
aide to Bill Clinton, a central
figure at
the Clinton Foundation and
creator of the
annual Clinton Global Initiative
meetings.
In November 2011, he wrote a
memo describing
the intersection of his
foundation fund-raising
efforts and his management of
President Clinton's
for-profit business
opportunities, which Band
called Bill Clinton, Inc.
For example, the for-profit
Laureate International
Universities, which gave the
foundation more
than $1 million, Band called it
a foundation
relationship that evolved into a
personal
advisory services business
relationship for
President Clinton.
Clinton made more than $17
million over five
years as a consultant and
honorary chancellor.
UBS Wealth Management gave the
foundation
more than a half-million
dollars.
Band said his firm encouraged
UBS to invite
President Clinton to give
several paid speeches,
which he has done, Clinton's
fees, $900,000,
or GEMS Education, which gave
$780,000.
Band said the relationship has
grown into
a business relationship for
President Clinton.
Band wrote the memo as part of
an internal
audit which began after Chelsea
Clinton accused
him of hustling business at CGI
meetings.
It appears to have triggered
some personal
hostility.
In November 2011, Band
complained that she
was acting like a spoiled brat
kid who has
nothing else to do.
There's also evidence that the
Clinton campaign
was concerned about the
foundation's activities.
In June 2015, campaign manager
Robby Mook
wrote campaign chairman John
Podesta: "Do
they plan to do big events next
year?
Possible for those to be smaller
and lower-key
in '16?"
Today, a Clinton campaign
spokesman wouldn't
confirm the authenticity of the
e-mails, which
he said were hacked by the
Russian government
to influence the election by
weaponizing WikiLeaks.
For the "PBS NewsHour," I'm John
Yang.
HARI SREENIVASAN: Now: new rules
for broadband
providers when it comes to
collecting and
sharing customer data.
The Federal Communications
Commission voted
for the first time today to
create protections
on the transmission of personal
information
from broadband providers.
Tom Wheeler is the chairman of
the FCC.
And he joins me now.
What is a provider going to have
to do under
these new rules?
TOM WHEELER, Chairman, Federal
Communications
Commission: Well, the key thing
is that it
is the consumers' information.
It's not the network's
information.
And the consumer now has the
choice to say
how they want that information
to be used
and if they want it to be used.
So, there are really three key
things.
One, there has to be
transparency, that the
consumers have to be told,
here's what we're
doing with your information.
Two, they have to have choice.
So, do you want to opt in or opt
out of this
kind of service?
And, three, that data, when it's
stored someplace,
has to be stored securely and
consumers have
to know if there is some kind of
data breach.
HARI SREENIVASAN: So, you have
also expanded
the definition of what is
sensitive data.
And some businesses have pushed
back, saying,
the browsing history, the app
usage, Internet
companies like Facebook and
Google, they already
have all that, and you're
placing undue burdens
on companies like Verizon, AT&T,
et cetera.
TOM WHEELER: But what we're
talking about
is not the fact that you may go
to a dozen
sites that each will get a
little bit of information.
We're talking about the network
that takes
you to every site and knows
everything you're
doing.
And that's the big difference.
You hire the network to deliver
you to those
sites.
You don't hire the network to
take your information
without your permission and turn
around and
resell it.
HARI SREENIVASAN: So, businesses
are also
saying, listen, this is part of
our marketing.
Our -- how we actually make
money is off of
this consumer data.
And if you do this, if the FCC
does this,
what about if the consumer gets
charged more,
almost a privacy fee, a tax, if
I want to
stay private?
TOM WHEELER: Well, let's go back
to the fact
that nothing says that they
can't use this
information, just that they have
to ask permission,
OK?
So that's step one.
Step two is that pay for privacy
-- we don't
want privacy to become some kind
of a luxury
item, but we ought to look at
that on a case-by-case
basis in terms of, how does any
policies that
affect pricing, what are the
specifics of
those, rather than looking at
them on some
kind of a broad basis.
HARI SREENIVASAN: But, right
now, this is
limited to kind of broadband
providers.
There are a lot of companies now
who are more
than just a broadband provider.
They also own content creators,
so they do
both the distribution and the
creation.
Right?
So, what about the fact that if
I'm with AT&T,
there is also the satellite,
there is also
the cell phone, there is also
all kinds of
things where my data could be
stored, transmitted?
This just seems to just cover a
small sliver.
TOM WHEELER: So, if your
communications company
is engaged -- has other
communications activities,
they can share the information.
But if they have
non-communications activities,
such as their own Web site and
-- or they're
taking you to other Web sites,
that information
is your information, and it's
not information
that they have the ability to
turn around
and sell without your
permission.
HARI SREENIVASAN: What have you
learned now,
looking back five years ago, the
merger of
Comcast or the acquisition of
NBC by Comcast?
It's not on your desk yet, but
more likely
than not AT&T is trying to buy
Time Warner,
and it's going to show up in the
FCC.
What have you learned in those
past five years
of what worked and what didn't
work?
And what would you differently?
TOM WHEELER: Well, you're right.
It's not on our desk yet.
And we don't know what the
parameters are.
And so what our job is, is to
develop the
facts of the case, and to make a
decision
based on those facts.
And I think what's more
important is to say,
five years is a long tame.
Let's look at specifically
what's happening
today, what the marketplace
looks like today.
And let's make a decision based
on that, if,
in fact, this ends up on our
plate.
HARI SREENIVASAN: So, is there
something that
you can say that, you know what,
these kind
of restrictions didn't pan out,
or these restrictions
that are only going to be in
place until,
let's say, 2018, if that's what
the structure
of that deal was, they need to
be changed
because the market has changed
so much already?
TOM WHEELER: Well, first, you
have to say,
what are the specific
circumstances in the
item that you're looking at
right then, and
then go from there.
And we don't have that basis
yet.
HARI SREENIVASAN: OK.
Finally, you have had a lot come
on your plate,
reclassifying broadband as a
utility, net
neutrality.
And when you came in, you came
from the cable
industry.
And people said, well, look at
this, he's
going to give them a free pass.
Has being on this job changed
how you think
about these things, especially
considering
all the public comments that you
see and hear?
TOM WHEELER: Well, that is a
really interesting
question, Hari.
But I think I'm always -- I'm
the same person
that I always was.
My career has been representing
the insurgents
against the incumbents.
I was always for the folks who
were bringing
more competition.
And the mantra of my term at the
FCC has been
competition, competition,
competition.
HARI SREENIVASAN: All right, Tom
Wheeler,
chairman of the FCC, thanks for
joining us.
TOM WHEELER: Thank you.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Stay with us.
Coming up on the "NewsHour": a
young Minnesota
boy chosen to become a great
Buddhist leader;
and chef Anthony Bourdain
explains his hunger
for new adventures.
But first: Much of this election
campaign
has focused on worries over
stagnation and
whether the country is heading
in the right
direction.
Tonight, a conversation that
takes a much
longer view about the price, and
paradox of
the country's historical
prosperity.
Our economics correspondent,
Paul Solman has
our look.
It's part of his weekly series,
Making Sense.
TODD BUCHHOLZ, Author, "The
Price of Prosperity:
Why Rich Nations Fail and How to
Renew Them":
Washington, D.C., is a beautiful
city, Greek,
Roman architecture.
Our society is based on those
empires, but
they're gone.
So, why do we think that our
country is going
to defy all of human history?
PAUL SOLMAN: Because empires,
asserts Republican
economist Todd Buchholz, are so
often forced
to pay the price of prosperity.
TODD BUCHHOLZ: They undermine
themselves,
and they do that by racking up
more debt,
by having fewer babies born, by
more regulation.
And it's difficult to keep up
patriotism as
time goes by.
PAUL SOLMAN: "The Price of
Prosperity" is
Buchholz's downbeat new book, a
dissonant
contrast to its upbeat author.
Buchholz was an original
investor in the musical
mega-hit "Jersey Boys," author
of the bestselling
"New Ideas From Dead
Economists," director
of economic policy under
President George
H.W. Bush, pushing economic
growth optimistically.
But he rails at what we have
become, a people
that want everything, but won't
pay for it
themselves, and, thus, in the
first of his
symptoms of prosperity malaise,
have run up
a $19 trillion national debt.
And how exactly?
TODD BUCHHOLZ: Because people
will lend to
us.
Because the U.S. is a rich
country, we don't
seem to have the need yet to
discipline ourselves.
PAUL SOLMAN: But in the future,
there will
be fewer Americans to cough up
the taxes to
pay the debt, our fertility
having fallen
below the replacement rate for
the first time
in our history.
Low fertility is Buchholz's
symptom number
two.
TODD BUCHHOLZ: This was a
hospital.
This is where my kids were born.
Lots of D.C. kids were born
here, but it's
not a hospital anymore.
It's condos.
You know, throughout the world,
throughout
history, when countries get
rich, they stop
having kids.
PAUL SOLMAN: Because Who needs
them?
TODD BUCHHOLZ: Rich countries
don't need as
many children.
We used to need kids to work in
the fields
as farm hands, to crawl on their
bellies into
coal mines.
Well, kids are more like luxury
objects now.
PAUL SOLMAN: So, the richer we
get, the fewer
kids we have, but is that a bad
thing?
TODD BUCHHOLZ: You need somebody
to support
the retirees.
You need to pay into the pension
plans.
You need people to work at the
hospitals,
at the nursing homes.
If you haven't produced enough
babies to do
that...
PAUL SOLMAN: You need
immigration, supposed
symptom number three.
TODD BUCHHOLZ: It was a
tremendous advantage
for the United States for most
of the 20th
century.
But if you have waves of
immigration, you
better figure out a way to turn
those immigrants
into red-blooded Americans, or
else you end
up splintering the society.
PAUL SOLMAN: Look at today's
anti-immigrant
backlash, says Buchholz, against
those who
learn very little English,
practice a different
religion, come here illegally,
like, we were
told, some of these day laborers
from Mexico
and Central America.
They shape up at the parking lot
next to our
"NewsHour" headquarters in
Arlington, Virginia,
hoping for the most basic work.
Luis Hernandez gets hired two to
three days
a week, he says, at $15 an hour
and up.
LUIS HERNANDEZ, Day Laborer:
Renovation.
PAUL SOLMAN: Renovation.
LUIS HERNANDEZ: Renovation.
Renovation, yes, kitchen,
bathroom, the floors.
PAUL SOLMAN: Hernandez sends
money back to
his family in Guatemala.
Jose Reyes sends money back to
Honduras to
support his wife and three kids.
How much do you send back?
JOSE REYES, Day Laborer: Maybe
$500 or $600.
TODD BUCHHOLZ: I admire these
men for working
so hard on behalf of their wives
and their
children.
But when they're doing the work
and then sending
the money back home, we do have
to ask, does
that really contribute as much
to the American
economy as if they were devoted
to actually
being here and staying here?
PAUL SOLMAN: But there are
immigrants serving
as doctors in hospitals,
professors at universities.
They come, they stay, they
contribute, no?
TODD BUCHHOLZ: It's a good thing
we have immigrant
doctors and immigrant engineers,
because if
you or I get sick this
afternoon, we're going
to go to the hospital, and we're
going to
hope someone serves us.
PAUL SOLMAN: But these workers
are doing work
almost anyone could do,
illustrating a fourth
price of prosperity: As a
country gets richer,
claims Buchholz, its work ethic
tends to erode.
Tony Barajas is the site's
coordinator.
Why wouldn't Americans, many of
whom are still
out of work, not take jobs like
this, where
you can show up and make, what,
700 bucks
a week, something like that?
TONY BARAJAS, Site Coordinator:
It's -- nobody
wants to do those jobs.
And I know it's kind of cliche
to even say
that, but that is the fact.
JOSE REYES: Maybe for pay is too
cheap.
You know, it may be the job is
too hard, too,
you know?
PAUL SOLMAN: And while these
guys wait for
work, many legal Americans their
age can afford
to do otherwise.
TODD BUCHHOLZ: We're prosperous
enough that
we can afford to have one in six
able-bodied
men of working age sitting at
home playing
video games.
PAUL SOLMAN: Last stop on "Price
of Prosperity"
tour: Theodore Roosevelt Island,
splitting
the Potomac between Virginia and
D.C., and
a backdrop for Buchholz's
conclusion.
TODD BUCHHOLZ: When Teddy
Roosevelt was around,
there was an Ottoman Empire.
There was a Habsburg empire.
They controlled millions of
people across
Africa, the Middle East and
Europe.
And they're gone.
Prosperity killed them, because
they didn't
have a way to hold the people
together.
They didn't have the rituals and
the holidays
and the pride in their country.
And that's what we need if we're
going to
hold ourselves together during
periods of
prosperity.
PAUL SOLMAN: So, Buchholz has
remedies, big
tax credits for having more
kids, bonuses
for starting to work young and
for getting
off unemployment insurance,
making immigrants
and students applying for
federal loans visit
patriotic sites like this one.
TODD BUCHHOLZ: I would require
them to get
their passport stamped, not just
at JFK or
whatever airport they arrive at.
I would require them to go to at
least five
national monuments or museums,
maybe here
at Teddy Roosevelt Island, or
the Smithsonian,
or the Museum of Tolerance, to
demonstrate
that they are trying to learn
something about
American history.
And you know what?
I would require the same thing
of American
students.
PAUL SOLMAN: I had one final
question.
Do you think the rancor of this
election is
symptomatic of the kind of
dissolution of
America you're talking about?
TODD BUCHHOLZ: I think this is a
corrosive
election.
And I think it does reflect deep
divisions
and distrust of our fellow
countrymen.
Half of Americans look at the
other half and
say, they're too lazy or they're
not willing
to get up and go to school.
And the other half looks and
sees a bunch
of fat cats and talks about
income inequality.
PAUL SOLMAN: Hardly a new theme
in often contentious
America, but it sure seems at
odds with hopeful
sanctuaries of the past, like
Teddy Roosevelt
Island.
For the "PBS NewsHour," this is
economics
correspondent Paul Solman,
reporting from
Washington, D.C.
HARI SREENIVASAN: The tradition
of rebirth
is a central Tenet in the
Buddhist religion.
And when spiritual leaders, or
lamas, die,
there's an elaborate process of
identifying
their reincarnation.
It's usually an infant.
One such young lama was
identified a few years
ago far away from his Himalayan
roots.
Special correspondent Fred de
Sam Lazaro reports
from Minnesota.
FRED DE SAM LAZARO: They are
chants more likely
heard in a Himalayan monastery
than a working-class
Minneapolis suburb.
But it's here in Columbia
Heights, Minnesota,
that 9-year-old Jalue Dorje
begins the day
in a routine of Tibetan Buddhist
mantras,
coached by his father.
A bit later, there are house
calls from volunteer
teachers in modern Tibetan, in
the calligraphy
of the ancient scriptures.
THINLY WORSER, Teacher: He has
really motivation
to learn and especially -- even
I know him,
he's tired, but he says, no, I'm
not tired.
I want to continue, you know?
So that also motivated me also
to teach him.
FRED DE SAM LAZARO: It's a
fitting trait,
because Jalue Dorje has been
recognized as
a reincarnation of Takshem Karma
Yongdu Choekyi
Nima, an eminent senior lama, or
spiritual
leader, who died nine years ago.
He would be the eighth
reincarnation of the
first Takshem lama, who lived in
the 16th
century.
In Tibetan tradition, the
process of recognizing
a reincarnate varies, depending
on circumstances.
Spiritual masters divine from a
variety of
signals.
In the case of Jalue Dorje, it
was the dream
of a senior monk who had visited
Jalue's home
in Minnesota, which is home to
some 3,000
Tibetan-Americans, the second in
size only
to New York.
In that dream, tigers roamed in
every room
of Jalue's house.
It was a critical clue in the
search for the
Takshem Lama's reincarnation.
THINLY WORSER: The Takshem
lamas, they used
to wear skirts of the tiger
skin.
Then I also thought, oh, it
might be, you
know, because Takshem lama was
passed away
year before, and everybody was
trying to find
out his reincarnation.
FRED DE SAM LAZARO: The question
of whether
that reincarnation is indeed
Jalue Dorje went
all the way up to the Dalai
Lama, spiritual
head of Tibetan Buddhism.
THINLY WORSER: Then His
Holiness' prediction
was the same, and many other
high lamas, and
so he was confirmed.
FRED DE SAM LAZARO: In the old
days, the boy
would be moved to a monastery in
Tibet, or
now in India, where the Dalai
Lama and thousands
of followers have lived in exile
since 1959.
However, the Dalai Lama
suggested that Jalue's
monastic education be deferred
until he's
a bit older.
The spiritual leader has
emphasized that Tibetans
or all Buddhists must reconcile
their traditional
belief system with the modern
world.
.
DALAI LAMA, Exiled Tibetan
Spiritual Leader:
I always appealing we Buddhists
should be
21st century Buddhists.
FRED DE SAM LAZARO: For Jalue
Dorje, that
means immersion in ceremony and
scripture,
on one hand, and, on the other,
a fairly typical
21st century Minnesota
upbringing.
Soccer and swimming are favorite
pastimes,
as are more sedentary ones,
isolated in headphones
and a laptop computer.
All this will soon change
drastically in a
Himalayan monastery perhaps in a
couple of
years, though an exact date has
not yet been
determined.
After about 10 years in India,
he is to return
to Minnesota as a spiritual
leader.
When you grow older and you've
completed your
studies, what do you think
you'll be doing
for people?
JALUE DORJE, 9 Years Old: I will
be praying
for them.
I will be chanting for them.
FRED DE SAM LAZARO: When I asked
what those
chants mean, he responded after
consulting
with his dad, who sat in on our
conversation.
JALUE DORJE: It's like meanings
of how to
help, how your body works, to be
nice, to
JALUE DORJE: It's like meanings
of how to
help, how your body works, to be
nice, to
be -- have peace.
FRED DE SAM LAZARO: Not every
young lama fully
embraces the rigorous,
altruistic calling
of meditation and service to
others.
The modern world can be filled
with distraction.
All this adds pressure on
Jalue's parents,
who labor long hours doing
janitorial jobs
in Minneapolis.
Devout Buddhists, they say they
were honored
and a bit awed when they learned
of the boy's
recognition, something that has
even brought
them into close quarters with
the Dalai Lama.
DECHEN WANGMO, Mother of Jalue
Dorje (through
translator): It was the first
time in my 40
years I got to see His Holiness,
the Dalai
Lama.
It is overwhelming for me,
because ordinary
people don't normally have the
opportunity
to meet him.
DORJE TSEGYAL, Father of Jalue
Dorje (through
translator): I'm happy that he
has the chance
to learn about the modern world,
as well as
the Eastern spiritual wisdom,
both combined
right from childhood.
It's going to be good.
FRED DE SAM LAZARO: But like
every other parent
of a 9-year-old, he has
strategies, mainly
an incentive system to keep his
son on task.
Every time you memorize a set of
scriptures,
you get a toy at Target, like a
set of Pokemon
cards or something?
JALUE DORJE: Yes, mostly that.
FRED DE SAM LAZARO: He's
learning to strike
a balance in life, even as
ceremonial obligations
are being added to his routine.
At this gathering celebrating
the birthday
of the Karmapa Lama, a major
spiritual leader,
Dorje came prepared with a book
that's popular
with grade school readers.
So, what did you bring to read
today?
JALUE DORJE: "The Diary of a
Wimpy Kid: Old
School."
FRED DE SAM LAZARO: Did you
bring Pokemon
cards?
JALUE DORJE: I snuck them.
FRED DE SAM LAZARO: Does dad
know that?
JALUE DORJE: No.
FRED DE SAM LAZARO: So, we
agreed to keep
it a secret between him and the
television
audience.
For the record, the Pokemon
cards remained
out of sight, and Jalue Dorje
remained as
attentive as any adult through
the three-hour
ceremony.
For the "PBS NewsHour," this is
Fred de Sam
Lazaro in Columbia Heights,
Minnesota.
HARI SREENIVASAN: Fred's
reporting is a partnership
with the Under-Told Stories
Project at University
of St. Thomas in Minnesota.
And a version of this report
aired on the
PBS program "Religion & Ethics
Newsweekly."
Anthony Bourdain
JUDY WOODRUFF: Now to another in
our Brief
But Spectacular series, where we
ask interesting
people to share their passions.
Tonight, we hear from Anthony
Bourdain, who
sheds light on kitchens around
the planet
for his CNN series "Parts
Unknown," and whose
book "Appetites" was released
just this week.
ANTHONY BOURDAIN, Chef: How did
I get from,
you know, dunking breaded clams
in hot grease
to where I am today?
(EXPLETIVE DELETED) if I know.
This is the kind of angry,
extremely unpleasant
person I was in college.
I actually walked around campus
with nunchucks,
and I would show up at the
occasional social
function bearing a samurai
sword.
I look back on that now with
some embarrassment,
but, then again, what were you
wearing in
the '70s?
I wanted to become a heroin
addict.
I was very proud of myself when
I first shot
up.
I was a vulnerable, goofy,
awkward guy whose
only success socially was to be
the baddest
guy in the room.
And, ultimately, however, you
end up a whiny,
pathetic, needy person.
I learned every important lesson
that I ever
really needed in the rest of my
life as a
dishwasher.
It was the first time in my life
that I went
home respecting myself.
In the good old, bad days, it
was definitely
a hazing period, in the European
tradition
anyway.
And there's a part of me that
kind of misses
that.
On the other hand, hitting
people in the workplace
is probably not, on balance, a
good thing.
I like food where the guiding
principle is,
you have three or four good
ingredients, and
the most important thing is to
just not screw
them up.
Treat them with a little
respect.
All America who cook in their
backyard insist
on ruining a perfectly good hunk
of meat again
and again and again.
Just leave the thing alone.
Let it rest.
Yes, food may not be the answer
to world peace,
but it's a start.
I think I was thinking of Ted
Nugent.
I find just about everything
that comes out
of his mouth violently
offensive, but we both
like barbecue.
That is some kind of common
ground for a discussion.
And, surely, that's not a bad
thing.
The grandma rule is this.
if I'm going to grandma's house,
I will eat
what grandma puts on the plate,
and I will
smile and ask for seconds and
say, thank you,
grandma.
Here's really my problem with
vegetarians.
I admire, I respect your
personal lifestyle
choice.
Actually, I don't.
Screw you.
But let's pretend that I do.
All of my relationships with
people around
the world begin when I express
an interest
and a willingness to respect
their traditions
behind what they put on my
plate.
So, if I were to sit there and
say, I don't
know, I can't -- do you have a
spinach salad,
that would be interpreted as
insulting in
most cultures.
It is a -- both a blessing and a
curse to
me that, no matter what happens
in my life,
I can always go back to brunch.
Nobody wants to cook brunch.
Society apparently needs people
to cook brunch,
in spite of its ridiculousness.
This TV thing doesn't work out,
there's always
a brunch gig.
My name is Anthony Bourdain, and
this is my
Brief But Spectacular take on my
hunger.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Sorry we didn't
know him in
college.
HARI SREENIVASAN: He lost one
vegetarian viewer
right there.
(LAUGHTER)
JUDY WOODRUFF: OK.
And you can watch additional
Brief But Spectacular
episodes on our Web site,
PBS.org/NewsHour/Brief.
On the "NewsHour" online right
now: A new
study finds that perceptions
that boys do
better than girls in math starts
in kindergarten,
despite efforts to close the
culture by encouraging
greater confidence in girls.
Also, areas afflicted by
violence from Boko
Haram are now suffering a new
nightmare.
You can find a photo essay of
children and
their mothers who are victims of
a hunger
crisis in Nigeria.
All that and more is on our Web
site, PBS.org/NewsHour.
HARI SREENIVASAN: On Charlie
Rose tonight:
the cast of "The Crown," a new
Netflix series
on the life of Britain's Queen
Elizabeth II.
And that's the "NewsHour" for
tonight.
I'm Hari Sreenivasan.
JUDY WOODRUFF: And I'm Judy
Woodruff.
Join us online and again right
here tomorrow
evening with Mark Shields and
David Brooks.
For all of us at the "PBS
NewsHour," thank
you, and good night.
For all of us at the "PBS
NewsHour," thank
you, and good night.